{id: author-bios}
# Author Bios

**_Christopher Allen_** is an entrepreneur and technologist who specializes in collaboration, security, and trust. He worked with Netscape to develop SSL and co-authored the IETF TLS internet draft that is now at the heart of secure commerce on the World Wide Web. More recently, he was Principal Architect at Blockstream, where he led blockchain standards efforts. Christopher is today co-chair of the W3C Credentials CG working on standards for decentralized identity and founder of Blockchain Commons. He also founded and facilitates the semi-annual Rebooting the Web of Trust design workshops, which have generated over 40 collaborative white papers about the next generation of internet privacy, security, and identity software.

**_Shannon Appelcline_** is a technical writer with expertise in blockchain, cryptocurrency, and digital identity who specializes in making technical concepts accessible. He has regularly written for Bitmark, Blockchain Commons, Blockstream, and Certicom, and his work has made the front page of Hackernoon. He is also the editor-in-chief for Rebooting the Web of Trust. In the non-technical sector, Shannon wrote a four-book history of the roleplaying field, _Designers & Dragons_, and recently co-authored _Meeples Together_, a study of cooperative game design, with Christopher.

**_Bryan Bishop_** is a Bitcoin Core contributor and independent technology consultant. Bryan previously spent 4 years at LedgerX, the first CFTC- regulated bitcoin options exchange and clearinghouse. At LedgerX, he implemented an industry leading solution for the secure storage of digital assets and cryptographic keys protecting many millions of dollars. Bryan's background began in software, especially in web application development at various startups. Separately in his biotech activities, he co-founded the "Culture Shock" open-source electroporator project. Additionally, he serves on the technology working group and intellectual property working group for Genome Project-Write, an organization tasked with reducing the costs of human genome synthesis by 1000x within 10 years.
